How does factoring relate to
determining whether expressions are equivalent?
Think about this question during a lesson.
Kiana is painting an ocean mural on a rectangular wall.
To start, she painted the wall blue.
She used three cans of paint,
each of which covered x square meters,
and a different sized can that covered 12 square meters.
What are the possible
length and height dimensions of Kiana's mural?
The expression three x plus 12 represents the area of the mural.
One way to solve this problem is with an area model.
You can use an area model to represent the area of the mural,
three times x plus 12.
The first part of the area model represents
the area covered by the three cans of paint.
The second part represents
the 12 square meters, the large can of paint covered.
Now we can look for possible dimensions of the wall being painted.
How can you use algebra tiles to represent the expression?
There’s three cans times x,
the number of square meters each can covered.
The other can covered 12 square meters.
We can think of that as three times four.
So one possible set of dimensions of the mural could be
x plus four meters long and three meters tall.
You can also solve this problem by using a common factor and
the distributive property to
factor the expression three times x plus 12.
What is the greatest common factor
of the two terms in this expression?
The greatest common factor of three times x and 12 is three.
So we can rewrite each term as three times something.
Then we can apply the distributive property.
This expression, three times the quantity x plus four
is equivalent to the original one.
The factored expression represents
the area of the mural as a product of two factors.
So another possible set of dimensions of the mural could be
three meters long and x plus four meters tall.
Now you know how to use
the distributive property to both expand and factor expressions.